hello this is precious Hawker this is
the final video in the series on how to
solve the Rubik's Cube where we solve
the final layer so once you're done with
this you'll have solved the cube all
right we have two layers of the cube
solved and now the task is to solve the
final layer the first step in this
process is to create a yellow cross in
the cube we're looking at we don't have
any of the pieces of the yellow cross
complete your cube may have two pieces
either adjacent or across from each
other so I'll get to those we're only
gonna need to know one sequence of moves
so we go F R u R prime u prime F prime
when you do that when you have none of
the yellow cross you'll end up getting
two pizza pieces in the yellow cross so
here we have two adjacent pieces and we
want to orient them so that they're
going to be the left and back pieces
from whatever face were looking at so
it's very important you can orient this
in a couple of different ways we're
going to look at the face that gives
those two pieces to be the left and back
sides of the yellow cross then we go
ahead and do F R u R Prime u Prime and F
Prime so it's the same sequence of moves
and now those two adjacent pieces will
be two opposite pieces
and we're gonna look at the same face
and do the move again f R u R prime u
Prime and F Prime and that will bring us
to the yellow cross so it doesn't matter
whether you start out with none of the
yellow cross to adjacent pieces or two
opposite pieces this is how you solve
the yellow cross at this point you've
solved two layers of the queue
you've solved the white layer you solve
the middle layer and now you have the
yellow cross so now what we're going to
do is position the pieces in the yellow
cross so that the edges are matching the
center's so turn the cube around and
inspect it at first there are no edges
that are matching so let's rotate it
around until we have one that is
matching when you have one that's
matching it's either gonna be two
opposite pieces here we have green and
blue that are matching or they're gonna
be two adjacent pieces you may also have
all four of them solved in which case
you're already done but let's start out
with the worst case where they're two
opposite sides that are matching so look
at one of the sides which is opposite
and then do R u R prime u R u u and R
Prime
and what this will do is this will bring
us to the case or we have two adjacent
pieces that are matching and fine now in
this case we want to transpose the two
that are not matching so let's look at
the two pieces which are matching and
put them on the right side and the back
side so that's how you want to orient it
and look at a face so that the adjacent
ones what you're matching are the right
side and the back side then we go ahead
and do the same move are you are Prime
you are you you are Prime and finally
you and now we'll have all four of the
edge pieces of the yellow cross that are
matching alright now we have a cube
where two layers are completely solved
and when we look at the yellow layer we
have made the white cross so the next
step is to put the corners in the
correct position so we inspect if any of
the corners are in the correct position
this blue matches the blue but the
orange does not match the red the green
matches the green but the orange does
not match the red here we have red which
doesn't match Orange and finally we see
that the red in origin so none of these
four corners are in the correct position
your cube may have a few more but here's
what you do you go you are u prime L
prime u R prime u Prime
and L
so this will bring at least one of the
corners into the correct position and
here is one of the corners so here we
have green and orange that's in the
correct position so the remaining
corners are not in the correct position
so we're going to do the same move again
put the correct corner in the
upper-right of the face you're looking
at so we go u R u prime L prime u R
prime u prime and L and this will move
the other corners around so it doesn't
matter whether they're in the correct
orientation for now we see that all
right none of the corners have actually
been moved to the correct position so we
go ahead and do the move once more u R u
prime L prime u R prime u Prime and L
and now we actually put all of the
corners in the correct position so some
of them are not in the correct
orientation that's what we'll solve in
the next video
you
all right we're almost done we have two
layers of the cube completely solved we
have the yellow cross solved and now all
of the corners are in the correct
position but maybe not the correct
orientation so there's just one move
that we need to use to put them in the
correct orientation so looking at any of
the faces we go our prime D prime our D
and we looked to see if that yellow is
at the top since it's not we do the same
move again we go our prime D prime our D
and now this yellow is at the top now
what's very important we hold the cube
we look at the same face and we rotate
just the top now we repeat the same
sequence we go our prime D prime our D
yellow is not at the top so we do it
again our prime D prime our D yellow is
not at the top so we're gonna have to do
this two more times our prime D prime
our D and finally once more our prime D
prime R and D and now when we rotate the
cube in the top layer we have two of the
corners that are in the correct position
and the correct orientation and we have
two corners that need to be solved so
we're going to repeat this procedure we
look at one of the faces where the
corner is not in the correct orientation
and we go and we're going to solve these
two corners using the same sequence of
moves so we go our prime D prime our D
then our prime D prime our T we still
don't see yellow at the top so we go
ahead and do this two more times
and at this point we see yellow at the
top now once again very importantly
looking at the same green face just turn
the top and we're going to do the same
sequence of moves our prime D prime our
D our prime D prime our D and at this
point we have the corners in the correct
orientation and we've solved the cube
there's one more case to consider let's
say you have a cube with two layers
solved you have the yellow cross and you
have the corners in the correct position
but three of them do not have the
correct orientation so we're going to do
our prime D prime our D and we keep
doing this until we see yellow at the
top so we go our prime D prime our D we
still don't see yellow at the top so we
go ahead and do our prime D prime our D
our prime D prime our D and now yellow
is correctly positioned at the top this
corner is in the correct orientation so
holding on to that face we turn just the
top and we're going to do the same
sequence of moves over again so our
prime D prime our D our prime D prime
our D so we don't see yellow at the top
so we're going to need to do this same
sequence moves two more times R prime D
prime Rd our prime D prime our D now we
see yellow at the top and we once again
just turn the top we hold the face that
we're looking at and we're going to do
this sequence of moves a few more times
until we get that corner in the correct
orientation so it's very important that
you do these moves carefully and slowly
I'm gonna do them faster because I know
I've been doing it many times but
eventually you will get yellow at the
top
and you rotate the top layer and you
solve the cube I hope you like this
entire series please subscribe to my
channel I make videos on math and game
theory you can support me on patreon
catch me on my blog mind your decisions
on Twitter at pressure Locker and you
can get my books listed on my website